# Project: PRJNA676022

Giulia Pavani, Anna Fabiano, Marine Laurent, Fatima Amor, 
Erika Cantelli, Anne Chalumeau, Giulia Maule, Alexandra 
Tachtsidi, Jean-Paul Concordet, Anna Cereseto, Fulvio 
Mavilio, Giuliana Ferrari, Annarita Miccio, Mario 
Amendola; Correction of β-thalassemia by CRISPR/Cas9 
editing of the α-globin locus in human hematopoietic stem 
cells. Blood Adv 2021; 5 (5): 1137–1153. doi: 
https://doi.org/10.1182/bloodadvances.2020001996

### Project description: 
B-thalassemias (B-thal) are a group of blood disorders 
caused by mutations in the B-globin gene (HBB) cluster. 
B-globin associates with a-globin to form adult 
hemoglobin (HbA, a2B2), the main oxygen-carrier in 
erythrocytes. When B-globin chains are absent or 
limiting, free a-globins precipitate and damage cell 
membranes causing hemolysis and ineffective 
erythropoiesis. Clinical data show that severity of 
B-thal correlates with the number of inherited a-globin 
genes (HBA1 and HBA2), with a-globin gene deletions 
having a beneficial effect for patients.
Here, we describe a novel strategy to treat B-thal based 
on genome editing of the a-globin locus in human 
hematopoietic stem/progenitor cells (HSPCs).

Using CRISPR/Cas9, we combined two therapeutic 
approaches: i) a-globin downregulation, by deleting the 
HBA2 gene to recreate an a-thalassemia trait and ii) 
B-globin expression, by targeted integration of a 
B-globin transgene downstream the HBA2 promoter.

First, we optimized the CRISPR/Cas9 strategy and 
corrected the pathological phenotype in a cellular model 
of B-thal (HUDEP-2 B0). Then, we edited healthy donor 
hematopoietic stem/progenitor cells (HSPCs) and 
demonstrated that they maintained long-term repopulation 
capacity and multipotency in xenotransplanted mice.

To assess the clinical potential of this approach, we 
next edited B-thal HSPCs and achieved correction of a/B 
globin imbalance in HSPC-derived erythroblasts. As a 
safer option for clinical translation, we performed 
editing in HSPCs using Cas9 nickase showing more precise 
editing with no InDels.

Overall, we described an innovative CRISPR/Cas9 approach 
to improve a/B globin imbalance in thalassemic HSPCs, 
paving the way for novel therapeutic strategies for 
B-thal.


### This repository

This repository contains the runs for SRR13613109. These FASTQ files are the HBA2 gene amplified sequence off-target activity for Cas9 D10A. 
